we've heard from the French President
saying that Israel must stop killing
babies and women in Gaza Emanuel macron
told the BBC in an exclusive interview
at the aliz palace that there was no
justification for the bombing saying
that a ceasefire would benefit Israel
while recognizing Israel's right to
protect itself he said we do urge them
to stop this bombing in Gaza he's been
speaking to the BBC's Europe editor Katy
Adler we've had weeks of Aid
organizations sounding the alarm about
Gaza and so you've now said that
humanitarian pauses in fighting aren't
enough and there needs to be worked
towards a ceasefire are you disappointed
that other world leaders aren't joining
you in that call like the us or the UK
no I hope they will and let's be clear I
mean I was one of the first leader to
call H prime minister and president of
Israel after the terrorist attack the
7th of October we clearly condemned this
terrorist attack and terrorist group and
Rec recognize the right of Israel to
protect itself and react but day one we
say that this reaction and the fight
against
terrorism because it is led by a
democracy should be compliant with
International rules all of war and and
humanitarian international
law and day after day what we saw is a
permanent bombing of civilians in Gaza
and I think
it's it's very important to say the
whole story but I I think this is the
only solution we have this is fire
because it's impossible to explain we
want to fight against
terrorism by killing innocent people
you've talked about the fight uh against
terrorism needing to be merciless is is
the word you Ed but not without rules
and you've just referred there to the
high loss of civilian life life in Gaza
do you think Israel is respecting those
rules the international rules that
you're referring to uh look in the very
first days it's clear that the emotion
The
Compassion um created a situation where
everybody was just close to Israel and
beging them and U sharing the pain and
we do share the pain and we do share the
willingness uh to got rid of terrorism
we we know what terrorism means in
France but I think there is no
justification precisely to attack
civilians what I would like just to
clarify with you are you saying that
Israel is guilty of breaking
International humanitarian
law potential war cries no I'm here look
I I think it's not the proper way to
approach the
question we do recognize their right to
protect
themselves and and one month after this
terrorist attack I think it would be not
the right way to deal with a a a partner
and friend just to say you will be
condemned and you are
guilty de
facto today civilians are
bombed de facto this babies ladies is
all people are bombed and killed there
is no reason for that and no legitimacy
so
we do urge Israel to stop I'm I'm not
here
to I'm not a
judge I'm a head of state I just remind
everybody international law I call for a
ceasefire and I will urge them for a
ceasefire for a minute against this
fire that was Emanuel macron well let's
bring in our panel Andrew fiser former
director of policy at the labor party
under jery Corbin and mo ay executive
director at the Georgetown Institute of
politics and public service interested
for you both for your reactions there to
what Emanuel macron had to say Andrew
I'll start with
you yeah uh look I think it's very
welcome that he's joined the majority of
world leaders we shouldn't forget who
are calling now for a ceasefire in this
conflict um and it leaves President
Biden and Richie sunak in the UK
increasingly isolated in not backing a
ceasefire we saw the UN you know over
120 countries uh backed a ceasefire only
a few I think 14 voted against the us
one of them um so this is really
important and in a significant shift and
look Emanuel macron is obviously a
diplomat ahead of state but the fact
that he's saying to Israel you have to
abide by international law is a clear
recognition that currently they're not
we've seen white phosphorus being used
in densely populated areas we've seen
the carpet bombing of Civilian areas um
you know we've seen a Siege imposed on a
civilian population um which all of
which are illegal under international
law it's very clear that Israel has not
acted within international law um in
this uh reaction to the terrible events
of the 7th of October so it's a
significant intervention from Emanuel
macron and I hope it has influence both
in the UK and in the US because at the
end of the day there is no military
solution to this it is going to require
a ceasefire and talks and a peaceful
settlement that the Palestinians and the
Israelis have been let down by their
leaders and by the international
Community for at least 30 years since
the last big serious attempt to try and
get there Mo with regards to the kind of
International Community do you think
other leaders will look at what Emanuel
macron had to say take on board those
comments and start to think they might
air theirs more
strongly uh perhaps I think a lot of the
world is still um
uh a lot of the world is really torn
they want to see Israel exercise its
right to self-defense they know that
Hamas is a brutal terrorist organization
and that it itself is uh acting against
the best interests of the people they
purport to represent Hamas itself is
working against the best interests of
the Palestinian people preventing many
of them from leaving uh using them as
human Shields and so you know I I think
a lot of the world is still trying to
Grapple with this I think people are
increasingly horrified by the scenes and
the images we are seeing of the
devastation in Gaza and of all of the
people who uh who died uh in as a result
of the military action I found it
interesting that the Israeli Ambassador
uh to the un uh used the opportunity to
attack the UN for accepting hamas's
propaganda some of it is propaganda and
i' take anything Hamas does with a with
a grain of salt but but at the same time
we are seeing these images for ourselves
we are seeing the devastation for
ourselves we know whatever the number is
too many civilians are being killed I'm
happy to see that the human that there's
now going to be a daily humanitarian
pause Israel seemed to be uh forced to
take that step by International pressure
the Biden Administration has been very
aggressive in pushing that but they do
need to take more steps in their
legitimate effort to eradicate Hamas uh
to protect the civilians and I'm not
sure they're doing that well right now